# Setting up ESP-IDF Development Environment on Linux
The GNU development and debugging tools required for the ESP-IDF
development environment are native to the Linux system. Additionally,
the command-line terminal in Linux is powerful and user-friendly, making
it an ideal choice for ESP32-C3 development. You can select your
preferred Linux distribution, but we recommend using Ubuntu or other
Debian-based systems. This section provides guidance on setting up the
ESP-IDF development environment on Ubuntu 20.04.

**1. Install required packages**

Open a new terminal and execute the following command to install all
necessary packages. The command will automatically skip packages that
are already installed.

    sudo apt-get install git wget flex bison gperf python3 python3-pip python3- setuptools cmake ninja-build ccache libffi-dev libssl-dev dfu-util libusb-1.0-0

Git is a key code management tool in ESP-IDF. After successfully setting
up the development environment, you can use the `git log` command to
view all code changes made since the creation of ESP-IDF. In addition,
Git is also used in ESP-IDF to confirm version information, which is
necessary for installing the correct tool chain corresponding to
specific versions. Along with Git, other important system tools include
Python. ESP-IDF incorporates numerous automation scripts written in
Python. Tools such as CMake, Ninja-build, and Ccache are widely used in
C/C++ projects and serve as the default code compilation and building
tools in ESP-IDF. `libusb-1.0-0` and `dfu-util` are the main drivers
used for USB serial communication and firmware burning.

Once the software packages are installed, you can use the
`apt show <package_name>` command to obtain detailed descriptions of
each package. For example, use `apt show git` to print the description
information for the Git tool.

<!-- ![Switching the source of Ubuntu system to a domestic server](Pics/D4Z/4-4.png) -->
<figure align="center">
    <img src="../../Pics/D4Z/4-5.png" width="80%">
    <figcaption>Figure 4.4. Switching the source of Ubuntu system to a domestic server</figcaption>
</figure>

**2. Download ESP-IDF repository code**

Open a terminal and create a folder named `esp` in your home directory
using the `mkdir` command. You can choose a different name for the
folder if you prefer. Use the `cd` command to enter the folder.


    mkdir -p ~/esp
    cd ~/esp

Use the `git clone` command to download the ESP-IDF repository code, as
shown below:


    git clone -b v4.3.2 --recursive https://github.com/espressif/esp-idf.git

In the command above, the parameter `-b v4.3.2` specifies the version to
download (in this case, version 4.3.2). The parameter `--recursive`
ensures that all sub-repositories of ESP-IDF are downloaded recursively.
Information about sub-repositories can be found in the `.gitmodules`
file.

\(1\) Use the `git clone` command to download the ESP-IDF main
repository code from Gitee. The command is as follows:


    git clone -b v4.3.2 https://gitee.com/EspressifSystems/esp-idf.git

In the command above, the parameter `-b v4.3.2` specifies version v4.3.2
to download. Note that the parameter `--recursive` is no longer used
here, because the ESP-IDF sub-repositories use relative paths, and there
may be no corresponding sub-repositories on Gitee.

\(2\) To download the sub-repositories, clone the `esp-gitee-tools` tool
as shown below:


    git clone https://gitee.com/EspressifSystems/esp-gitee-tools.git

\(3\) Enter the `esp-gitee-tools` directory and add the path of this
tool for later use.


    cd esp-gitee-tools
    export EGT_PATH=$(pwd)

\(4\) Return to the `esp-idf` directory to download the sub-repository
code.


    cd ~/esp/esp-idf
    $EGT_PATH/submodule-update.sh

**3. Install the ESP-IDF development tool chain**

Espressif provides an automated script `install.sh` to download and
install the tool chain. This script checks the current ESP-IDF version
and operating system environment, and then downloads and installs
appropriate version of Python tool packages and compilation tool chains.
The default installation path for the tool chain is `\sim/.espressif`.
All you need to do is to navigate to the `esp-idf` directory and run
`install.sh`.

    cd ~/esp/esp-idf
    ./install.sh

If you install the the tool chain successfully, the terminal will
display:

    All done!

At this point, you have successfully set up the ESP-IDF development
environment.

\(1\) Redirect pip download: run the following command before executing
`./install.sh`. This will change the pip server to `mirrors.aliyun.com`
(Alibaba Cloud).


    pip --version
    pip config set global.index-url https://mirrors.aliyun.com/pypi/simple
    pip config set global.trusted-host mirrors.aliyun.com

\(2\) Redirect the download of the compilation tool chain: run the
command before executing `./install.sh`. This will change the download
server to Espressif's official server.


    export IDF_GITHUB_ASSETS="dl.espressif.com/github_assets"